Common Application Essay
Discuss an accomplishment, event, or realization that sparked a period of personal growth
and a new understanding of yourself or others. (Limit: 650 words)
It was 4 a.m., but I was awake, eyelids heavy, bone weary, but fighting sleep. I envied the milkmen
who ritually rose well before even roosters – they too were probably deep in slumber. Though I
had already logged 70 hours of sleeplessness, that didn’t stop me; I was still awake.
I scrolled the pages on my laptop screen, making sure yet again that all was in order, scanning the
text and data with sleep-deprived eyes; but had you looked below their bloodshot surface you’d
have discerned the bright glint of self-confidence and accomplishment there. I had done this
before – thrice – and had emerged victorious every single time. I reread, for the final time, the
section on Hall-effect thrusters, and finally leaned back in my chair, and declared to my teammates,
“it’s ready!” There was no response. I swiveled around in the chair, only to see that all my four
teammates were already fast asleep. I didn’t dare wake them up; they too had worked long hard
hours on our entry to the Space Settlement Design Contest. I hit the submit button and
immediately fell asleep.

***

2 months on: once again, it was 4 a.m., and I was still awake. This time, it wasn’t my cursor hovering
over the submit button, it was the one on the judges’ computer. Months of labor (including 70
hours of sleepless dedication) had boiled down to that one moment. I desperately wanted to know
if we bagged the Grand Prize or 1st Prize. The results website went offline for about 40 frustrating
seconds, before the results flashed before my retinas. I searched end-to-end for my team name,
but it was nowhere to be found: not in the Grand Prize, not in the 1st Prize, not even in the 2nd
or 3rd, or even in the honorable mentions! I hit refresh and perused again. I hit refresh once again,
hoping that it was just some sort of technical glitch which stood between me and the Grand Prize,
to no result. Those months of labor seemed inconsequential.
***

Sisyphus was an immoral, cruel Greek king who was notorious for having tricked death twice
through deception. He ultimately got his comeuppance when Zeus sentenced to the eternal
punishment of forever rolling a boulder up a hill only to have it roll down again before reaching
summit. But was it really punishment? Was his inability to succeed really a curse? But let’s
hypothesize – suppose that (through craft, deceit, ingenuity or superhuman effort) he did get the
boulder to the summit – what next? He’d probably enjoy the view that first time. What about the
second time? And the third? There wouldn’t be much purpose to his existence then, would there?
That Sisyphus was ordained to keep trying yet never succeed doesn’t quite seem punishment to
me; if anything, it seems like a blessing.
Perhaps that’s why I almost enjoy failure; failure affords you the opportunity to try again, to assess
what went wrong and what didn’t. With success, it’s a done deal.
This has always bothered me. What will I do once I succeed? What next? Undeniably, there will
be other mountains and other boulders, other successes to build on failures. And admittedly, many,
many of my successes were built on failure.
Time and again, many around me define me by my successes, but I believe that I’m better defined
by the failures they were built on. The 5/5 on my AP Exam came after countless practice papers
with 3s. That one game-winning layup I shot came after several hundred missed shots and bruised
knees in practice. I have failed, and I have succeeded. I have failed more times than others have
even tried. That’s why I consider myself successful.
Those 70 sleepless hours weren’t the first and they weren’t the last. Sisyphus did it for eternity;
why would I stop at just 70 hours?