How did you get caught? (Or not caught, as the case may be.) —Inspired by Kelly Kennedy,
AB’10

6
The cops were perplexed. The M.O. was the same. A single strip of paper torn from a larger sheet
and missing. The most mind-bending part wasn’t even the most unlikely slew of victims - Johannes
Bach, Henry Cavendish and old Chinese astronomers- it was the fact that no real crime was
committed.
Cav​endish was the first to come into the station. He had three confused officers surround him. The
man held up a discarded paper-plane and claimed “This, this ​paperwork​ brought me to this peculiar
place”. He went on, wailing “my life’s work has been meddled with. Someone changed my G!” The
officers looked at each other, blank, the only G they knew were their Glocks, which weren’t blank.
In Cavendish-speak, G was the Universal Gravitational Constant, which someone had indeed
changed. You must be wondering, is it a crime to change physical constants? No one knows, it
hadn’t been done before since the laws of physics are forever binding and untouchable.
Soon followed the gifted musician from Germany, quavering (pun intended) like Jell-O. &quot;What&#39;s a
Kanye and why is he in my work?&quot; he posed. Some cops chuckled, trying to catch a peek of the
sheet music Bach held in his left hand. Sure enough, the materialism and egotism was strong in the
stems of the added crotchets, obviously drawn with a Sharpie over Bach&#39;s work.
Next was a line of Chinese men, with heavily embellished robes, flaunting the paper-plane that was
common among all the victims. Someone had cunningly removed the Ox from the Zodiac. This
wasn’t necessarily a robbery, no real oxen were stolen but it did set their civilization back by around
209 years.
No cop had seen anything like this in the department’s history. They named the criminal ‘Agent of
Chaos’ since there was no clear motive apart from making the world more chaotic. Innumerable
visits to all ‘crime’ scenes, and days of tiresome investigations later, the po-po narrowed down to a
single piece of evidence, a trail of coconut c​hutney​ that was identified in Bach’s harpsichord room.
Excitement was palpable as forensics showed that the special chutney could only come from 1 of
the 3,188 South-Indian joints.
This was the department’s greatest effort yet but unfortunately, they finally got to me. Indeed, I was
the ‘Agent of Chaos’. My only motto in life is the Second Law of Thermodynamics. Everyone
gathered around as I peacefully finished my ​dosai​ (Indian pancake) at ‘Grand Snacks’. I didn’t forget
my manners, I offered them a bite. Ignoring my generosity, Cavendish, Bach, and the astronomers
all asked in unison, albeit in their respective languages - “Why?”, “為什麼?”, “Weshalb?”.
Two belches later, I started, “Revenge”. That’s all I wanted.
I turned to the astronomers. I tried my best to explain to them with my two hands and two weeks of
Duolingo learnt Mandarin that an Ox once charged at me and stabbed me in the back with its horns
so I felt it didn’t deserve a spot on the Chinese Zodiac, so I removed it.

7
I continued, “And Mr. Bach, I love the paradoxes in your music and I really respect your skills but I
just wanted to see how Kanye West would influence Baroque music, nothing personal. You should
meet him, interesting guy”.
With only the English scientist left, I smiled, “This one helped me​ the most. I wasn’t getting the
right answer for G in my IB Extended Essay investigation so I changed history and the universe to
match the value with the number in my paper. I’m sure I’ll get an A now!”
“How did you get away?” asked the cops. I took a tissue, delicately made the folds for my paper-
plane time machine - a paradoxically simple contraption doing the impossible. I finish, hop on, and
set off in front of the shocked men. I’m excited to fly to Hyde Park for more random, chaotic
trickery.