CommonApp Essay
Some students have a background, identity, interest, or talent that is so meaningful they believe their
application would be incomplete without it. If this sounds like you, then please share your story.
What's in a name, you ask?
Where I come from, everything means something, everything has a purpose. Even names. Phone books in
India are an etymologist's delight.
Well, if you ask my parents - my father will tell you that he spent as much time thinking about my name as he
did for his engineering entrance exam; my mother will intervene saying that the comparison is a gross
underestimation of the effort that went into naming me. Somewhere between pages of 'Sanskrit names' and
consultations with numerologists, they settled on Vidyut.
So what does Vidyut mean? Well, it means lightning. Although I try to adhere to scientific objectivity in
virtually every aspect of my life, whether it's when booking the statistically safest seats on a flight (at the back,
you're welcome) or buying the highest rated pens, some nagging part of me can't help but think that all the
superstition about name-choosing is well-founded - I could spend hours reading Tesla's works or tinkering
with electrical circuits.
I mean, call me crazy, but look at Chandrashekar, the Nobel prize-winning physicist and one of my heroes.
Once, when I was discussing his greatest contribution, the Chandrashekar limit, with my physics teacher,
questioning why electron degeneracy pressure opposes gravitational contraction - I really wanted to ask &quot;If
'Chandra' means moon, and 'Shekhar' means peak, what are the odds that a man named 'Chandrashekhar'
would make stellar observations about the peak mass of dying stars?&quot;. Just as my imagination soared, I was
lost in a galaxy of thoughts and dreaming that one day, like Chandrashekhar, my name will find a place in
textbooks or will be linked to a theorem, I could hear my teacher saying &quot;Vidyut, this is Houston, come back
to Earth&quot;.
That doesn't mean that I'm defined or limited by the laws of physics. Like dosai (Indian crepe) batter reaching
for the edges of a black pan, my interests span the observable universe. On my laptop, you will find stickers
of a Feynman diagram, Childish Gambino's album art, and the title-card for Donald Glover's rap-centric TV
show, Atlanta. But the biggest sticker is for 'Dal and Chawal', a Rupi Kaur 'pop poetry' parody page.
&quot;Vidyut, having stickers on your laptop isn't a personality trait,&quot; my friends say. They're right, it isn't a singular
'trait' - from my academic interests to my artistic preferences - it represents my duality. I'm (almost) as
interested in form of fonts as I am in the form of waves. When I was choosing the typeface for my 'Dal and
Chawal' logo, I tried myriad options before settling on Hermann Zapf's Palatino. I wonder if Zapf took the
Indian-parent-approach to name his font.
While I don't believe in sovereigns, I do believe in sovereignty. As a child, I found my freedom in flying
around the world - from the comfort of my room on the flight simulator, going to different places and
learning new things. Landing in Moscow, I discovered my interest in the Russian Revolution. Landing in
Jeddah, I learnt about the origins of Islam. But sometimes, I learnt from the journey itself. When the
simulator algorithm decided to make the weather bad - incidentally by throwing lightning at me - I had to
think on my feet and overcome the challenge.

2
So, I guess all roads lead to lightning, to Vidyut. With this essay, I've tried to present my own version of the
Grand Unified Theory, unifying the forces that have acted on my life - from the day I was named till today.
Whether it's my interest in the interactions between quarks or sovereigns, or the fact that I have more
thoughts than I can process, Vidyut defines the way my mind functions.
While I may not know what's in a name, I know what's in my name.