The year is 2012. Three nine-year olds are frantically turning the pages of an encyclopaedia in the hope that somewhere between the battered pages of the old tome the secret to saving the world will reveal itself. Their anxieties are punctuated by the shriek of the school bell announcing that free period is over. But they pay no heed to it. A swarm of children come buzzing in. The teacher starts the lesson. But, their peering, note-taking, and turning of pages does not stop. ‘Vedant, the apocalypse still has 27 days to go. Identify the tense of the sentence written on the board,’ the teacher remarks, much to the amusement of the rest of the class. That year was shrouded in conspiracy theories about the ending of the world and the movie ‘2012’ had only exacerbated my fears. My friends and I had set out to design a spaceship that could carry the whole of humanity to Kepler-22b. The year ended on an anticlimactic note, but I never forgot the thrill and exhilaration that came with it.
It’s nothing short of a miracle that I am writing this essay right now. As a 6 year old I would walk into the classroom, plonk my school bag on my desk, and promptly doze off to sleep. I was alarmingly bored by school. My parents used to get worried phone calls from my teachers where in hushed tones they would discuss the possibility of holding me back for a year. Everybody was concerned about me.  I wasn’t a particularly slow learner but my cavalier attitude towards my education certainly did not help. 
When I reflect on my past I am intrigued by the fact that a hypothetical  apocalypse completely changed my perspective towards science and learning. Since then, I have come across and conjured in my head many such hypothetical and real problems that inspire me to learn and stay inquisitive. 
I am haunted by the same existential questions that have plagued many philosophers before. While the meaning of life hitherto remains hidden away from humanity, I find meaning in the endeavour to look for it. In some ways I think of this need to know about the universe we inhabit as the essence of our humanity.  My love for the natural sciences and my newfound interest in the social sciences stems from their ability to find patterns in this chaotic world that seems indecipherable. 
Physics was, surprisingly, a way for me to reconnect with my culture.  Upon reading that great physicists like Schrodinger, Einstein, and Oppenheimer found inspiration in ancient Vedic texts like the Upanishads, Vedas, and the Bhagvad Gita, I learnt to appreciate them. While I was taught to think of religion and science in terms of contradictory forces, it was physics that made me delve into the metaphysical knowledge contained in the Upanishads and the Vedas. 
 My father taught me to never take the world around me for granted. He taught me to look for beauty in the most mundane feats of human engineering like the simple two way switch or the sparkplug in a car that initiates combustion. I have tried to take his teachings forward in my own way.  Whether, it is by having long conversations with my economics teacher about the financial crisis in our country, discussing the possibilities of a unified theory with my physics teacher, attending lectures in my neighbourhood college, talking to people from different professions, working at my father’s business, or running my own, I am always looking to seize opportunities to learn. It is through this interminable pursuit of knowledge that I wish to understand my place in the universe.  To quote one of my favourite books, Sophies World, “If humans are insects on the fur of a rabbit that a magician pulled out of his cosmic hat, I aim to look up and stare the magician in his eyes.”